# Workflow 1.1

This repository contains applications needed for a regional loss estimaion workflow due to an earthquake event. The provided applications are organized in subdirectories:

1. **createBIM**: This directory contains applications that can obtain a Building Information Model (BIM) from a database of buildings. Some examples of these applications are:

   * **UrbanSimDatabase**: This application generates BIM models given UrbanSim buildings and parcels csv files.
   * **GenericBimDatabase**: This application generates BIM models given a generic database in csv format with a minimal set of information about each building.
   
   More detailed documentation for the createBIM applications is available [here](./createBIM/Readme.md)

2. **createEVENT**: This directory contains applications to generate hazard event input given BIM.
   * **LLNL-SW4**: This application will read the building location from the BIM model and will output ground motion for simulating building response. The application uses a set of precomputed ground motions for SF Bay Area earthquake event (Magnitude 7.0 earthquake at the Hayward fault) simulated using [SW4](https://geodynamics.org/cig/software/sw4/).
   * **SHA-GM** [Experimental]: This application combines seismic hazard analysis (SHA) and ground motion record selection/scaling to provide ground motions for structural analysis based on a user-defined earthquake scenarios.

3. **createSAM**:  This directory contains applications to create strctural analysis model (SAM) given BIM and Event data
   * **MDOF_LU**:  This application use Hazus data to generate a MDOF non-linear shear building model. 
   * **AI-M-3** [Under Development]: This is an application that is currenlty under development that uses artificial intelligence to obtain SAM from BIM.
4. **createEDP**: This directory contains applications that generates a list of the required Engineering Demand Parameters (EDPs) to be obtained from structural analysis

5. **performSIMULATION**: applications in this directory will perform preprocessing of SAM, structural analysis and post processing to obtain EDP values
6. **performUQ**: This directory contains scripts and applications needed to wrap
7. **createLOSS**:  Applications in this folder are used to determine damage and loss
   * **FEMA_P58_LU**: 

## Dependencies
* Many of the provided applications require the [Jansson library](http://www.digip.org/jansson/) to be installed. Jansson is a free native C library for encoding, decoding and manipulating JSON data. It is licensed under the MIT license. For *nix systems, it is assumed installed in /usr/local/jansson as seen in the included Makefiles.
* Some applications in the createLOSS and performUQ folders require uses C++11 features.

## Building

## Notes

NOTE: each subsirectory included provides an application and include example 
input and output .json (the input coming from previous step, the output 
generated by the application given the inputs)

NOTE: running an application w/o any inputs shows what the command line args
should be.

NOTE: the buildings.csv and parcesls.csv files needed to run are not included in repository till we can remove some data that we cannot release. contact us.

NOTE: similarly for the ground motion files.

## SW4 - 

Directory processSW4 contains code to process SW4 .x,.y,and .z files into 1 .json file


## Pegasus Workflow

The Pegasus workflow can be found in the workflow/ directory. 

Before submitting, please run `make` to make sure all the executables
required by the workflow have been built.

The workflow is set up to execute in two different execution
environments: local HTCondor pool, Stampede 2 or TACC Wrangler. The first
is good for small to medium sized runs as turnaround time is usually
pretty good. Large workflows should be mapped to TACC Wrangler.

Submitting a workflow for local HTCondor pool execution can be done
by executing:

    ./submit-workflow

Submitting to TACC Stampede2 can be done on the workflow.isi.edu host
with the command:

    ./submit-workflow stampede2
    ./submit-workflow wrangler